(soft lighthearted music)
(door opening)
So, then.
What's your decision?
Hey, come on.
You think this is something
I can decide that easily?
The last Chunin
Exams were suspended
because of the attack
by the Otsutsuki.
So, we've put off
selecting who, if anyone,
to promote to Chunin.
I've been getting pestered
by a lot of departments
to hurry up and choose.
Yeah, I know all of that.
But still, it's really difficult
to pick just one person.
That is the rule, right?
So, who do we promote to Chunin?
(Opening Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(sighing)
This is really hard, isn't it?
A Chunin is the
leader of a team.
This isn't just about
fighting skills.
But the ability to
take charge of a team,
discern battle situations,
and make decisions.
So we have to think carefully
and chose someone
with those qualities.
The first part of the exams
were Sai's true or false quiz.
[Sai] A true or false quiz.
(people groaning)
It's a quiz?
(shouting)
(screaming)
[Sai] The answer is.
[Shikamaru] Quite a
few of the competitors
were eliminated in that round.
We started out with 32 teams
but only eight teams
made it through.
We definitely can't
promote anyone
who failed in the
very first round.
Right.
Boruto!
(shouting)
(coughing)
(tense rock music)
[Naruto] Four teams from the
Hidden Leaf made it through.
[Shikamaru] There were also
two from the Hidden Mist
and one each from the
Sand and the Cloud.
[Sai] Were forced to find,
after being put into
a difficult situation,
whether you'd give up or not.
[Naruto] Okay, so that
means we have to chose
from among these guys, then.
(rock music)
In a team battle, the leader
can have big influence
over whether their
group wins or loses.
I'd say that it's the ideal test
to look for Chunin qualities.
[Shikamaru] Of course.
That leaves out anyone who
disregards team coordination
and rushes in on their own.
[Naruto] Oh yeah.
Actually, that reminds me.
Shinki of the Sand rushed
in on his own, didn't he?
[Shikamaru] Well
yeah, you're right
but he was way ahead
of the others in skill.
After all, he took on Iwabe,
Denki, and Metal all by himself
and won.
[Naruto] Just what you'd
expect from Gaara's son.
You'd already lost when
you let me provoke you
and you forgot the rules.
[Naruto] Shikadai and
his team's coordination
was perfect right?
[Shikamaru] No, Shikadai's
strategy just happened
to work out, that's all.
Inojin and Cho-Cho
just followed along.
[Naruto] That's how it's been
since your own
Ino-Shika-Cho days.
I think that when you or
Shikadai are in the lead,
there's no real choice but
to follow your strategy.
-I got it.
-Really?
Well, Sumire's team failed
to make it through round two.
They actually had
quite a strong team
but back then they still lacked
balance in their abilities.
[Naruto] Sumire's joining
the Scientific Ninja
Tools team, right?
[Shikamaru] Yeah, but that
doesn't change the fact
that she's a shinobi.
Sumire qualifies as a
candidate, don't you think?
[Naruto] First,
let's look at Team 5.
Honestly, I was surprised
by how much Iwabe
and Metal had improved.
Sure did.
[Naruto] But they're more suited
for the front lines of battle.
Instead of putting in
charge as team captains,
it's better for them to
gain more combat experience.
Also, when it comes
to Wasabi and Namida,
it's true that they've
gotten stronger
but I get the feeling
that they still
haven't really progressed
enough to be made team captains.
[Shikamaru] Does that
mean we should get Denki
and Sumire on the list?
Sumire was strong
enough to begin with.
She's sharp and
has the qualities
needed to be a Chunin.
Now, as for Denki.
I really believe that
out of all the others,
he's grown the
most as a shinobi.
Yes, I see.
Originally, he had no
desire to become a shinobi
but now look at him.
He's a genin along with
Boruto and the others.
[Naruto] Also, the
way that he's able
to analyze situations
from the back,
makes him well suited to
act as a team captain.
So, it's five against three.
[Shikamaru] Okay,
up next is Team 7.
[Naruto] It seems Boruto
thought he could use
his Shadow Clones and do
more than he actually could.
He failed miserably, huh?
[Shikamaru] And as a result.
(grunting)
I won't let you.
[Shikamaru] We
learned afterwards
that he was using his Scientific
Ninja tool during the test.
So, by all rights,
he technically should
be disqualified.
(laughing)
Well, setting Boruto
aside for the moment.
Regarding Mitsuki and Sarada,
I can't think of a reason
not to consider them.
He made the choice to use
that Scientific Ninja Tool
all because he just really
wanted me to acknowledge him.
Still, after all that,
there's just no way
I can promote him.
Sadly, Boruto isn't gonna
make the cut this time.
If we went strictly by ability,
Boruto has really grown.
I have high hopes for him.
Round three consists
of individual matches.
[Naruto] The individual
battles of round three were fun
because of everyone's
unique personalities.
[Shikamaru] Yeah,
nowadays we keep hearing
that fewer people want
to become shinobi.
So it's amazing how
people with true ability
show up each time.
Shikadai, he
struggled quite a bit.
Bad attitude.
[Naruto] If anything,
he's the type of shinobi
who supports from the back.
Where as Yodo's
skills are more suited
to actual combat.
So it was a poor matchup.
But leave it up to Shikadai.
He came up with the right
tactic and won, didn't he?
[Shikamaru] Yeah but
according to him,
it was nothing but sheer luck.
Shikadai said he accidentally
stepped on a piece of gum
left from the previous match.
So he figured out his opponent
had the ability
to discern sound.
[Naruto] Seriously?
Figuring out Yodo's
ability just from that
shows amazing perception.
Being modest is
so like Shikadai.
You're hearing is really
frighteningly good.
(grunting)
(shouting)
There was no other
way for me to muffle
the sound of my shoes
when I shifted my weight.
So, shall we call this a match?
[Naruto] Sarada won
her match easily.
[Rock Lee] The winner
is Sarada Uchiha!
Ninja Art, Super Beast Scroll.
[Naruto] And in the
next match up, Inojin...
[Shikamaru] Lost thoroughly.
How's that?
[Shikamaru] Araya was
using a puppet to battle.
Inojin lost because
he couldn't see
through his
opponent's abilities.
[Naruto] He may
have lost that match
but I understand that he's been
using the Mind Transfer
Jutsu recently.
I think that his future
looks very promising.
No way.
Snakes?
Why'd it have to be snakes?
[Naruto] Then Mitsuki won easily
and after that, the
next match was...
[Shikamaru] Cho-Cho
versus Shinki.
[Naruto] Yeah, I gotta say.
It was unusual seeing
Cho-Cho so motivated.
[Shikamaru] But of
all the bad luck.
She got Shinki for an opponent.
Partial Expansion Jutsu.
(grunting)
All right, empty...
Crash!
[Naruto] Had she been
up against anyone else,
she might of won.
Honestly, I feel
kinda sorry for her.
[Shikamaru] I just
wish she had decided
to display that determination
a little sooner.
[Naruto] And then,
the next match.
[Shikamaru] Hey, just hold on.
We gotta start
narrowing down the list
or we're gonna be
here all night.
[Naruto] Yeah, I get
what you're saying
but it's just, it's like
they're all so close
and it seems like such a waste.
(tense rock music)
(grunting)
(shouting)
You really need to make
some tough choices here.
The captain's entrusted
with their team's lives.
It's a huge responsibility.
We gotta be tough
and drop anyone
without the right qualities.
Yeah.
I don't really think
that Inojin is ready
to lead people yet
and Cho-Cho.
Well, it goes without
saying, right?
(crowd cheering)
Next up was the match
between Shikadai and Boruto.
[Naruto] Boruto used the
Scientific Ninja Tool
in that match, too.
Under normal circumstances,
Shikadai would of won.
[Shikamaru] No.
[Naruto] Huh?
[Shikamaru] Even though Boruto
used the Scientific Ninja Tool,
he only created one
extra Shadow Clone.
Boruto could of managed
something like that
from training alone
but deciding that four
was Boruto's limit
only highlights
Shikadai's inadequacy.
[Naruto] Hey, come on now.
Aren't you being kinda harsh?
[Shikamaru] Misinterpret
stuff like that in battle
and people will die.
(crowd cheering)
(tense music)
Damn it.
[Shikamaru] I'll retrain
the Ino-Shika-Cho
trio from scratch.
[Naruto] Wow, are you serious?
(tense music)
Sarada's match against
Araya was a surprise, huh?
(tense music)
Lightning Style: Lightning Ball.
[Shikamaru] Who would of
thought the real Araya
was manipulating a
puppet from a distance?
[Naruto] But what's
more shocking
was Sarada's ability to
see through his trick.
She used the Sharingan and
Fire Style on top of that.
It looks like we've got another
Sasuke on our hands, here.
(tense music)
[Shikamaru] The
leadership skills
to command a team, the ability
to analyze battle situations,
she's definitely got them.
[Naruto] Qualities necessary
in a Chunin, you mean?
Wind Style: Breakthrough.
[Naruto] While we're
on the subject,
there's a part of Mitsuki
that lacks awareness
about the world.
In that way, he's far
from being a Chunin.
[Shikamaru] But the
most critical issue
about him is that he
deserted the village.
After being the epicenter
of an incident like that,
no one will accept his
promotion to Chunin.
[Naruto] Although, according
to Konohamaru's reports,
he's changed recently.
For example, he's started
to speak his mind.
[Shikamaru] Well, I
guess you could say
that Mitsuki is growing, too.
Sarada made it to the finals
where she battled Shinki.
Although she lost there,
I've got no qualms whatsoever
about her qualifications
to become a Chunin.
Compared to Denki and Sumire,
I'd say Sarada's abilities
far outshine theirs.
Right, well I guess
that it's decided then.
We'll promote her to Chunin.
(door opening)
[Sasuke] Sorry to interrupt.
(door closing)
Sasuke?
Sasuke.
So, you're back, huh?
Yeah, I thought that I'd
out to come and report in.
Did you locate the
whereabouts of that guy
who had the fishing rod?
No, I haven't found
him just yet but...
I did find several markers
that place him in
certain locations.
Seems he was
gathering intel here
even before the arrival
of Momoshiki and Kinshiki.
[Shikamaru] Before
Momoshiki and Kinshiki came?
So, he was here doing
reconnaissance then?
[Sasuke] I can't
really say for sure
one way or the other.
But, it certainly
wouldn't surprise me
if he were to show up
again sometime soon.
[Naruto] Damn it.
I guess that means
this situation's
gonna remain as
unpredictable as ever.
[Shikamaru] Got it.
Thanks for the report.
Sure, I'll keep
investigating, too.
Oh, this is--
Are you thinking of
promoting Sarada to Chunin?
Huh, how'd you ever
figure that out?
You and Shikamaru, the
Leaf's top officials,
pouring over genin photos
this late at night.
It's pretty obvious,
wouldn't you say?
Got us, you're right.
You should be happy.
We just decided
Sarada's our pick.
Uh, so why aren't you happy?
Well, it's the logical outcome.
But...
Shikamaru, there's
something on your mind
you want to share with us?
Oh, uh no.
I was just thinking that
a lot of time has passed
since the Chunin exams
and since then, a pretty
major incident occurred.
You must mean that incident.
Where some genin deserted
the Leaf village?
Huh, wait.
How did you even
know about that?
Sarada was involved
and I am her father.
Sakura filled me in
about everything.
Oh, right, of course.
But I don't understand.
What does that whole
situation have to do with us
promoting her to Chunin?
I bet I know what
Shikamaru's thinking.
I trust Mitsuki.
Right now, that's
what my will is.
(sighing)
Let's take that snake
to Orochimaru's lab.
We can probably find out
more information there.
Until we find out just
what Mitsuki's thinking,
I'm gonna keep you company.
What, really?
You okay with that?
You're gonna be pursued, too.
You and Mitsuki aren't
the only members
of Team 7, remember?
[Sasuke] It was a
significant incident
that even pulled
the Hidden Stone
into the investigation
around it.
Experiencing something
that consequential
is almost certain to have
had a huge impact on them.
[Shikamaru] Exactly,
and since we didn't take
that into consideration
when we made our choice,
I still have some
doubts that we should
go with Sarada as our pick.
[Sasuke] Well, unlike you two,
my job takes me
straight to the scene
when incidents occur.
From my perspective, I'd
rather you pick someone
for their skills
in actual combat
than for test scores.
[Naruto] Hey, come on.
You make it sound so simple but.
[Shikamaru] I wasn't
expecting such valuable advice
from someone in the field.
Still, taking that into account,
Sarada has met and even
exceeded the conditions needed
to become a Chunin.
[Sasuke] You're
really okay with this?
I heard that she
had her genin rank
stripped from her for a bit.
[Shikamaru] That may be true
but Sarada managed to fight off
several formidable assailants
and because Sarada
helped resolve
the Hidden Stone incident,
the Tsuchikage herself requested
that she not be blamed.
(sighing)
Oh well, guess your empty head
can think about
it long and hard.
Huh, you're leaving already?
But you're here now.
Tell us your thoughts.
But a good idea just popped
into your head, didn't it?
This would probably
go faster if I stayed.
But then again, I
wouldn't want to take away
from your job as the Hokage.
What was that?
Look, even if you're
not here, I can still...
And there he goes.
Hey, so what's
this idea of yours?
Huh, well uh.
Boruto and the others
went to another village
and returned home safely, right?
Yeah, they did but?
Huh, what's going on?
Just listen.
From one point of view,
what they did counts
as an S-rank mission
and the fact that
all of them managed
to come back safely,
speaks volumes about
Shikadai's abilities
and about his strength.
Just, hold on for a
minute, would you guys?
[Naruto] Only Team 10 was
sent out on the manhunt
to find Boruto's team.
That was your plan, Shikamaru.
[Shikamaru] Yeah, that's
because I believed
Shikadai's analysis
of the incident
would be on the
level equal of mine.
That's the reason I entrusted
Shikadai to act on his own.
Seems the game
board has changed.
Sorry, Dad.
[Shikamaru] Shikadai felt
something was out of place
with the situation
and went with Boruto.
[Naruto] During the debriefing,
they all said that Shikadai
took over the leadership
and it was in part thanks to him
that everything worked out.
[Shikamaru] Yeah, I kinda had
a feeling that would happen.
I knew they'd act
without thinking
and I'd thought it be
safer with Shikadai around
and at the time, the
argument could be made
that the only ones
who could really move
around freely were genin.
[Naruto] And just
as you predicted,
Shikadai managed to get crucial
intel about the incident.
He immediately send
word to the Leaf, to us,
and it was thanks to that intel
that we were able to
take decisive action.
All right.
Yeah, the whole village
has been taken over.
[Shikamaru On Phone] Okay,
I understand the situation.
Now, listen.
Just lay low.
If you get captured again...
[Shikamaru] Naruto, just
what are you trying to say?
[Naruto] What I mean is,
you sent Shikadai out there
in order to help
Boruto in your place,
isn't that right?
So I, I've gotta do what I can.
Just wait, Shikadai.
The knight that jumps
far falls prey to a pawn.
That it?
Dad, I'm sorry that I'm
acting so selfishly.
But after all, I did come
here of my own free will.
[Naruto] Because of our
positions in the Leaf,
we couldn't move
around very easily,
but someone like Shikadai
could be sent out
to act in your stead.
He's able to stand in
for the Hidden Leaf's
most brilliant intellect.
That's pretty remarkable,
wouldn't you say?
-Naruto.
-How can you fight
in a way that exposes
yourself to danger?
You're really strong.
Honestly, stronger than us.
We have to compensate by
using another kind of strength
to make up for the difference.
Another kind of strength?
That's right.
The strength of the heart.
It's because we're
able to put our lives
into the hands of our friends.
Friends that we trust in
with all of our heart.
Do you know why you were
the one we selected?
It's because, most
importantly a Chunin
must have the ability
to lead a team,
discern battle situations, and
make appropriate judgements.
That right?
That alone isn't the right
answer, not entirely.
It's also because you have
the most importantly quality
a Chunin needs.
You truly care
about your comrades.
Will you accept this?
Yes.
(Ending Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(energetic music)
Really, my first
mission as a captain?
Your teams been
assembled in a rush
but I'm sure it will
be a piece of cake.
[Shikadai] What does that mean?
This seems like it's
gonna be a real drag.
[Moegi] Well, just do
your best, new captain.
[Shikadai Voiceover]
Next time on Boruto
Naruto Next Generations.
The Qualities of a Captain.
[Shikadai] If it
comes down to it,
I can probably manage it myself.
Right?
(Ending Theme Music)